README.md, before:

# Instant Neural Graphics Primitives ![](https://github.com/NVlabs/instant-ngp/workflows/CI/badge.svg)

<img src="docs/assets_readme/fox.gif" height="342"/> <img src="docs/assets_readme/robot5.gif" height="342"/>

Ever wanted to train a NeRF model of a fox in under 5 seconds? Or fly around a scene captured from photos of a factory robot? Of course you have!

Here you will find an implementation of four __neural graphics primitives__, being neural radiance fields (NeRF), signed distance functions (SDFs), neural images, and neural volumes.
In each case, we train and render a MLP with multiresolution hash input encoding using the [tiny-cuda-nn](https://github.com/NVlabs/tiny-cuda-nn) framework.

> __Instant Neural Graphics Primitives with a Multiresolution Hash Encoding__  
> [Thomas Müller](https://tom94.net), [Alex Evans](https://research.nvidia.com/person/alex-evans), [Christoph Schied](https://research.nvidia.com/person/christoph-schied), [Alexander Keller](https://research.nvidia.com/person/alex-keller)  
> _[arXiv:2201.05989 [cs.CV]](https://arxiv.org/abs/2201.05989), Jan 2022_  
> __[Project page](https://nvlabs.github.io/instant-ngp)&nbsp;/ [Paper](https://nvlabs.github.io/instant-ngp/assets/mueller2022instant.pdf)&nbsp;/ [Video](https://nvlabs.github.io/instant-ngp/assets/mueller2022instant.mp4)&nbsp;/ [BibTeX](https://nvlabs.github.io/instant-ngp/assets/mueller2022instant.bib)__

For business inquiries, please visit our website and submit the form: [NVIDIA Research Licensing](https://www.nvidia.com/en-us/research/inquiries/)


## Requirements

- An __NVIDIA GPU__; tensor cores increase performance when available. All shown results come from an RTX 3090.
- A __C++14__ capable compiler. The following choices are recommended and have been tested:
  - __Windows:__ Visual Studio 2019
  - __Linux:__ GCC/G++ 7.5 or higher
- __[CUDA](https://developer.nvidia.com/cuda-toolkit) v10.2 or higher__ and __[CMake](https://cmake.org/) v3.21 or higher__.
- __(optional) [Python](https://www.python.org/) 3.7 or higher__ for interactive bindings. Also, run `pip install -r requirements.txt`.
- __(optional) [OptiX](https://developer.nvidia.com/optix) 7.3 or higher__ for faster mesh SDF training. Set the environment variable `OptiX_INSTALL_DIR` to the installation directory if it is not discovered automatically.


If you are using Linux, install the following packages
```sh
sudo apt-get install build-essential git python3-dev python3-pip libopenexr-dev libxi-dev \
                     libglfw3-dev libglew-dev libomp-dev libxinerama-dev libxcursor-dev
```

We also recommend installing [CUDA](https://developer.nvidia.com/cuda-toolkit) and [OptiX](https://developer.nvidia.com/optix) in `/usr/local/` and adding the CUDA installation to your PATH.
For example, if you have CUDA 11.4, add the following to your `~/.bashrc`
```sh
export PATH="/usr/local/cuda-11.4/bin:$PATH"
export LD_LIBRARY_PATH="/usr/local/cuda-11.4/lib64:$LD_LIBRARY_PATH"
```


## Compilation (Windows & Linux)

Begin by cloning this repository and all its submodules using the following command:
```sh
$ git clone --recursive https://github.com/nvlabs/instant-ngp
$ cd instant-ngp
```

Then, use CMake to build the project: (on Windows, this must be in a [developer command prompt](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cpp/build/building-on-the-command-line?view=msvc-160#developer_command_prompt))
```sh
instant-ngp$ cmake . -B build
instant-ngp$ cmake --build build --config RelWithDebInfo -j 16
```

If the build fails, please consult [this list of possible fixes](https://github.com/NVlabs/instant-ngp#troubleshooting-compile-errors) before opening an issue.

If the build succeeds, you can now run the code via the `build/testbed` executable or the `scripts/run.py` script described below.

If automatic GPU architecture detection fails, (as can happen if you have multiple GPUs installed), set the `TCNN_CUDA_ARCHITECTURES` enivonment variable for the GPU you would like to use. The following table lists the values for common GPUs. If your GPU is not listed, consult [this exhaustive list](https://developer.nvidia.com/cuda-gpus).

| RTX 30X0 | A100 | RTX 20X0 | TITAN V / V100 | GTX 10X0 / TITAN Xp | GTX 9X0 | K80 |
|----------|------|----------|----------------|---------------------|---------|-----|
|       86 |   80 |       75 |             70 |                  61 |      52 |  37 |



## Interactive training and rendering

<img src="docs/assets_readme/testbed.png" width="100%"/>

This codebase comes with an interactive testbed that includes many features beyond our academic publication:
- Additional training features, such as extrinsics and intrinsics optimization.
- Marching cubes for `NeRF->Mesh` and `SDF->Mesh` conversion.
- A spline-based camera path editor to create videos.
- Debug visualizations of the activations of every neuron input and output.
- And many more task-specific settings.
- See also our [one minute demonstration video of the tool](https://nvlabs.github.io/instant-ngp/assets/mueller2022instant.mp4).



### NeRF fox

One test scene is provided in this repository, using a small number of frames from a casually captured phone video:

```sh
instant-ngp$ ./build/testbed --scene data/nerf/fox
```

<img src="docs/assets_readme/fox.png"/>

Alternatively, download any NeRF-compatible scene (e.g. [from the NeRF authors' drive](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1JDdLGDruGNXWnM1eqY1FNL9PlStjaKWi)).
Now you can run:

```sh
instant-ngp$ ./build/testbed --scene data/nerf_synthetic/lego/transforms_train.json
```

For more information about preparing datasets for use with our NeRF implementation, please see [this document](docs/nerf_dataset_tips.md).

### SDF armadillo

```sh
instant-ngp$ ./build/testbed --scene data/sdf/armadillo.obj
```

<img src="docs/assets_readme/armadillo.png"/>

### Image of Einstein

```sh
instant-ngp$ ./build/testbed --scene data/image/albert.exr
```

<img src="docs/assets_readme/albert.png"/>

To reproduce the gigapixel results, download, for example, [the Tokyo image](https://www.flickr.com/photos/trevor_dobson_inefekt69/29314390837) and convert it to `.bin` using the `scripts/image2bin.py` script. This custom format improves compatibility and loading speed when resolution is high. Now you can run:

```sh
instant-ngp$ ./build/testbed --scene data/image/tokyo.bin
```


### Volume renderer

Download the [nanovdb volume for the Disney cloud](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1SuycSAOSG64k2KLV7oWgyNWyCvZAkafK?usp=sharing), which is derived [from here](https://disneyanimation.com/data-sets/?drawer=/resources/clouds/) ([CC BY-SA 3.0](https://media.disneyanimation.com/uploads/production/data_set_asset/6/asset/License_Cloud.pdf)).

```sh
instant-ngp$ ./build/testbed --mode volume --scene data/volume/wdas_cloud_quarter.nvdb
```
<img src="docs/assets_readme/cloud.png"/>


## Python bindings

To conduct controlled experiments in an automated fashion, all features from the interactive testbed (and more!) have Python bindings that can be easily instrumented.
For an example of how the `./build/testbed` application can be implemented and extended from within Python, see `./scripts/run.py`, which supports a superset of the command line arguments that `./build/testbed` does.

If you'd rather build new models from the hash encoding and fast neural networks, consider the [__tiny-cuda-nn__'s PyTorch extension](https://github.com/nvlabs/tiny-cuda-nn#pytorch-extension).

Happy hacking!


## Frequently asked questions (FAQ)

__Q:__ How can I run __instant-ngp__ in headless mode?

__A:__ Use `./build/testbed --no-gui` or `python scripts/run.py`. You can also compile without GUI via `cmake -DNGP_BUILD_WITH_GUI=off ...`

##
__Q:__ Does this codebase run on [Google Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/)?

__A:__ Yes. See [this example](https://colab.research.google.com/drive/10TgQ4gyVejlHiinrmm5XOvQQmgVziK3i?usp=sharing) by user [@myagues](https://github.com/NVlabs/instant-ngp/issues/6#issuecomment-1016397579). Caveat: this codebase requires large amounts of GPU RAM and might not fit on your assigned GPU. It will also run slower on older GPUs.

##
__Q:__ Is there a [Docker container](https://www.docker.com/)?

__A:__ Yes. We bundle a [Visual Studio Code development container](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/remote/containers), the `.devcontainer/Dockerfile` of which you can also use stand-alone.

##
__Q:__ How can I edit and train the underlying hash encoding or neural network on a new task?

__A:__ Use [__tiny-cuda-nn__'s PyTorch extension](https://github.com/nvlabs/tiny-cuda-nn#pytorch-extension).

##
__Q:__ How can I save the trained model and load it again later?

__A:__ Two options:
1. Use the GUI's "Snapshot" section.
2. Use the Python bindings `load_snapshot` / `save_snapshot` (see `scripts/run.py` for example usage).

##
__Q:__ Can this codebase use multiple GPUs at the same time?

__A:__ No. To select a specific GPU to run on, use the [CUDA_VISIBLE_DEVICES](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/39649102/how-do-i-select-which-gpu-to-run-a-job-on) environment variable. To optimize the _compilation_ for that specific GPU use the [TCNN_CUDA_ARCHITECTURES](https://github.com/NVlabs/instant-ngp#compilation-windows--linux) environment variable.

##
__Q:__ What is the coordinate system convention?

__A:__ See [this helpful diagram](https://github.com/NVlabs/instant-ngp/discussions/153?converting=1#discussioncomment-2187652) by user @jc211.

##
__Q:__ The NeRF reconstruction of my custom dataset looks bad; what can I do?

__A:__ There could be multiple issues:
- COLMAP might have been unable to reconstruct camera poses.
- There might have been movement or blur during capture. Don't treat capture as an artistic task; treat it as photogrammetry. You want _\*as little blur as possible\*_ in your dataset (motion, defocus, or otherwise) and all objects must be _\*static\*_ during the entire capture. Bonus points if you are using a wide-angle lens (iPhone wide angle works well), because it covers more space than narrow lenses.
- The dataset parameters (in particular `aabb_scale`) might have been tuned suboptimally. We recommend starting with `aabb_scale=16` and then decreasing it to `8`, `4`, `2`, and `1` until you get optimal quality.
- Carefully read [our NeRF training & dataset tips](https://github.com/NVlabs/instant-ngp/blob/master/docs/nerf_dataset_tips.md).

##
__Q:__ How can I mask away dynamic objects for NeRF training?

__A:__ For any training image `xyz.*` with dynamic objects, you can provide a `dynamic_mask_xyz.png` in the same folder. This file must be in PNG format, where _non-zero_ pixel values indicate masked-away regions.

## Troubleshooting compile errors

Before investigating further, make sure all submodules are up-to-date and try compiling again.
```sh
instant-ngp$ git submodule sync --recursive
instant-ngp$ git submodule update --init --recursive
```
If __instant-ngp__ still fails to compile, update CUDA as well as your compiler to the latest versions you can install on your system. It is crucial that you update _both_, as newer CUDA versions are not always compatible with earlier compilers and vice versa.
If your problem persists, consult the following table of known issues.

| Problem | Resolution |
|---------|------------|
| __CMake error:__ No CUDA toolset found / CUDA_ARCHITECTURES is empty for target "cmTC_0c70f" | __Windows:__ the Visual Studio CUDA integration was not installed correctly. Follow [these instructions](https://github.com/mitsuba-renderer/mitsuba2/issues/103#issuecomment-618378963) to fix the problem without re-installing CUDA. ([#18](https://github.com/NVlabs/instant-ngp/issues/18)) |
| | __Linux:__ Environment variables for your CUDA installation are probably incorrectly set. You may work around the issue using ```cmake . -B build -DCMAKE_CUDA_COMPILER=/usr/local/cuda-<your cuda version>/bin/nvcc``` ([#28](https://github.com/NVlabs/instant-ngp/issues/28)) |
| __CMake error:__ No known features for CXX compiler "MSVC" | Reinstall Visual Studio & make sure you run CMake from a developer shell. ([#21](https://github.com/NVlabs/instant-ngp/issues/21)) |
| __Compile error:__ undefined references to "cudaGraphExecUpdate" / identifier "cublasSetWorkspace" is undefined | Update your CUDA installation (which is likely 11.0) to 11.3 or higher. ([#34](https://github.com/NVlabs/instant-ngp/issues/34) [#41](https://github.com/NVlabs/instant-ngp/issues/41) [#42](https://github.com/NVlabs/instant-ngp/issues/42)) |
| __Compile error:__ too few arguments in function call | Update submodules with the above two `git` commands. ([#37](https://github.com/NVlabs/instant-ngp/issues/37) [#52](https://github.com/NVlabs/instant-ngp/issues/52)) |
| __Python error:__ No module named 'pyngp' | It is likely that CMake did not detect your Python installation and therefore did not build `pyngp`. Check CMake logs to verify this. If `pyngp` was built in a different folder than `instant-ngp/build`, Python will be unable to detect it and you have to supply the full path to the import statement. ([#43](https://github.com/NVlabs/instant-ngp/issues/43)) |

If you cannot find your problem in the table, please feel free to [open an issue](https://github.com/NVlabs/instant-ngp/issues/new) and ask for help.

## Thanks

Many thanks to [Jonathan Tremblay](https://research.nvidia.com/person/jonathan-tremblay) and [Andrew Tao](https://developer.nvidia.com/blog/author/atao/) for testing early versions of this codebase and to Arman Toorians and Saurabh Jain for the factory robot dataset.
We also thank [Andrew Webb](https://github.com/grey-area) for noticing that one of the prime numbers in the spatial hash was not actually prime; this has been fixed since.

This project makes use of a number of awesome open source libraries, including:
* [tiny-cuda-nn](https://github.com/NVlabs/tiny-cuda-nn) for fast CUDA networks and input encodings
* [tinyexr](https://github.com/syoyo/tinyexr) for EXR format support
* [tinyobjloader](https://github.com/tinyobjloader/tinyobjloader) for OBJ format support
* [stb_image](https://github.com/nothings/stb) for PNG and JPEG support
* [Dear ImGui](https://github.com/ocornut/imgui) an excellent immediate mode GUI library
* [Eigen](https://eigen.tuxfamily.org/index.php?title=Main_Page) a C++ template library for linear algebra
* [pybind11](https://github.com/pybind/pybind11) for seamless C++ / Python interop
* and others! See the `dependencies` folder.

Many thanks to the authors of these brilliant projects!

## License and Citation

```bibtex
@article{mueller2022instant,
    title = {Instant Neural Graphics Primitives with a Multiresolution Hash Encoding},
    author = {Thomas M\"uller and Alex Evans and Christoph Schied and Alexander Keller},
    journal = {arXiv:2201.05989},
    year = {2022},
    month = jan
}
```

Copyright © 2022, NVIDIA Corporation. All rights reserved.

This work is made available under the Nvidia Source Code License-NC. Click [here](LICENSE.txt) to view a copy of this license.

Commit message:

Add FAQ entry about randomized background colors in NeRF training

README.md, after:

# Instant Neural Graphics Primitives ![](https://github.com/NVlabs/instant-ngp/workflows/CI/badge.svg)

<img src="docs/assets_readme/fox.gif" height="342"/> <img src="docs/assets_readme/robot5.gif" height="342"/>

Ever wanted to train a NeRF model of a fox in under 5 seconds? Or fly around a scene captured from photos of a factory robot? Of course you have!

Here you will find an implementation of four __neural graphics primitives__, being neural radiance fields (NeRF), signed distance functions (SDFs), neural images, and neural volumes.
In each case, we train and render a MLP with multiresolution hash input encoding using the [tiny-cuda-nn](https://github.com/NVlabs/tiny-cuda-nn) framework.

> __Instant Neural Graphics Primitives with a Multiresolution Hash Encoding__  
> [Thomas Müller](https://tom94.net), [Alex Evans](https://research.nvidia.com/person/alex-evans), [Christoph Schied](https://research.nvidia.com/person/christoph-schied), [Alexander Keller](https://research.nvidia.com/person/alex-keller)  
> _[arXiv:2201.05989 [cs.CV]](https://arxiv.org/abs/2201.05989), Jan 2022_  
> __[Project page](https://nvlabs.github.io/instant-ngp)&nbsp;/ [Paper](https://nvlabs.github.io/instant-ngp/assets/mueller2022instant.pdf)&nbsp;/ [Video](https://nvlabs.github.io/instant-ngp/assets/mueller2022instant.mp4)&nbsp;/ [BibTeX](https://nvlabs.github.io/instant-ngp/assets/mueller2022instant.bib)__

For business inquiries, please visit our website and submit the form: [NVIDIA Research Licensing](https://www.nvidia.com/en-us/research/inquiries/)


## Requirements

- An __NVIDIA GPU__; tensor cores increase performance when available. All shown results come from an RTX 3090.
- A __C++14__ capable compiler. The following choices are recommended and have been tested:
  - __Windows:__ Visual Studio 2019
  - __Linux:__ GCC/G++ 7.5 or higher
- __[CUDA](https://developer.nvidia.com/cuda-toolkit) v10.2 or higher__ and __[CMake](https://cmake.org/) v3.21 or higher__.
- __(optional) [Python](https://www.python.org/) 3.7 or higher__ for interactive bindings. Also, run `pip install -r requirements.txt`.
- __(optional) [OptiX](https://developer.nvidia.com/optix) 7.3 or higher__ for faster mesh SDF training. Set the environment variable `OptiX_INSTALL_DIR` to the installation directory if it is not discovered automatically.


If you are using Linux, install the following packages
```sh
sudo apt-get install build-essential git python3-dev python3-pip libopenexr-dev libxi-dev \
                     libglfw3-dev libglew-dev libomp-dev libxinerama-dev libxcursor-dev
```

We also recommend installing [CUDA](https://developer.nvidia.com/cuda-toolkit) and [OptiX](https://developer.nvidia.com/optix) in `/usr/local/` and adding the CUDA installation to your PATH.
For example, if you have CUDA 11.4, add the following to your `~/.bashrc`
```sh
export PATH="/usr/local/cuda-11.4/bin:$PATH"
export LD_LIBRARY_PATH="/usr/local/cuda-11.4/lib64:$LD_LIBRARY_PATH"
```


## Compilation (Windows & Linux)

Begin by cloning this repository and all its submodules using the following command:
```sh
$ git clone --recursive https://github.com/nvlabs/instant-ngp
$ cd instant-ngp
```

Then, use CMake to build the project: (on Windows, this must be in a [developer command prompt](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cpp/build/building-on-the-command-line?view=msvc-160#developer_command_prompt))
```sh
instant-ngp$ cmake . -B build
instant-ngp$ cmake --build build --config RelWithDebInfo -j 16
```

If the build fails, please consult [this list of possible fixes](https://github.com/NVlabs/instant-ngp#troubleshooting-compile-errors) before opening an issue.

If the build succeeds, you can now run the code via the `build/testbed` executable or the `scripts/run.py` script described below.

If automatic GPU architecture detection fails, (as can happen if you have multiple GPUs installed), set the `TCNN_CUDA_ARCHITECTURES` enivonment variable for the GPU you would like to use. The following table lists the values for common GPUs. If your GPU is not listed, consult [this exhaustive list](https://developer.nvidia.com/cuda-gpus).

| RTX 30X0 | A100 | RTX 20X0 | TITAN V / V100 | GTX 10X0 / TITAN Xp | GTX 9X0 | K80 |
|----------|------|----------|----------------|---------------------|---------|-----|
|       86 |   80 |       75 |             70 |                  61 |      52 |  37 |



## Interactive training and rendering

<img src="docs/assets_readme/testbed.png" width="100%"/>

This codebase comes with an interactive testbed that includes many features beyond our academic publication:
- Additional training features, such as extrinsics and intrinsics optimization.
- Marching cubes for `NeRF->Mesh` and `SDF->Mesh` conversion.
- A spline-based camera path editor to create videos.
- Debug visualizations of the activations of every neuron input and output.
- And many more task-specific settings.
- See also our [one minute demonstration video of the tool](https://nvlabs.github.io/instant-ngp/assets/mueller2022instant.mp4).



### NeRF fox

One test scene is provided in this repository, using a small number of frames from a casually captured phone video:

```sh
instant-ngp$ ./build/testbed --scene data/nerf/fox
```

<img src="docs/assets_readme/fox.png"/>

Alternatively, download any NeRF-compatible scene (e.g. [from the NeRF authors' drive](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1JDdLGDruGNXWnM1eqY1FNL9PlStjaKWi)).
Now you can run:

```sh
instant-ngp$ ./build/testbed --scene data/nerf_synthetic/lego/transforms_train.json
```

For more information about preparing datasets for use with our NeRF implementation, please see [this document](docs/nerf_dataset_tips.md).

### SDF armadillo

```sh
instant-ngp$ ./build/testbed --scene data/sdf/armadillo.obj
```

<img src="docs/assets_readme/armadillo.png"/>

### Image of Einstein

```sh
instant-ngp$ ./build/testbed --scene data/image/albert.exr
```

<img src="docs/assets_readme/albert.png"/>

To reproduce the gigapixel results, download, for example, [the Tokyo image](https://www.flickr.com/photos/trevor_dobson_inefekt69/29314390837) and convert it to `.bin` using the `scripts/image2bin.py` script. This custom format improves compatibility and loading speed when resolution is high. Now you can run:

```sh
instant-ngp$ ./build/testbed --scene data/image/tokyo.bin
```


### Volume renderer

Download the [nanovdb volume for the Disney cloud](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1SuycSAOSG64k2KLV7oWgyNWyCvZAkafK?usp=sharing), which is derived [from here](https://disneyanimation.com/data-sets/?drawer=/resources/clouds/) ([CC BY-SA 3.0](https://media.disneyanimation.com/uploads/production/data_set_asset/6/asset/License_Cloud.pdf)).

```sh
instant-ngp$ ./build/testbed --mode volume --scene data/volume/wdas_cloud_quarter.nvdb
```
<img src="docs/assets_readme/cloud.png"/>


## Python bindings

To conduct controlled experiments in an automated fashion, all features from the interactive testbed (and more!) have Python bindings that can be easily instrumented.
For an example of how the `./build/testbed` application can be implemented and extended from within Python, see `./scripts/run.py`, which supports a superset of the command line arguments that `./build/testbed` does.

If you'd rather build new models from the hash encoding and fast neural networks, consider the [__tiny-cuda-nn__'s PyTorch extension](https://github.com/nvlabs/tiny-cuda-nn#pytorch-extension).

Happy hacking!


## Frequently asked questions (FAQ)

__Q:__ How can I run __instant-ngp__ in headless mode?

__A:__ Use `./build/testbed --no-gui` or `python scripts/run.py`. You can also compile without GUI via `cmake -DNGP_BUILD_WITH_GUI=off ...`

##
__Q:__ Does this codebase run on [Google Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/)?

__A:__ Yes. See [this example](https://colab.research.google.com/drive/10TgQ4gyVejlHiinrmm5XOvQQmgVziK3i?usp=sharing) by user [@myagues](https://github.com/NVlabs/instant-ngp/issues/6#issuecomment-1016397579). Caveat: this codebase requires large amounts of GPU RAM and might not fit on your assigned GPU. It will also run slower on older GPUs.

##
__Q:__ Is there a [Docker container](https://www.docker.com/)?

__A:__ Yes. We bundle a [Visual Studio Code development container](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/remote/containers), the `.devcontainer/Dockerfile` of which you can also use stand-alone.

##
__Q:__ How can I edit and train the underlying hash encoding or neural network on a new task?

__A:__ Use [__tiny-cuda-nn__'s PyTorch extension](https://github.com/nvlabs/tiny-cuda-nn#pytorch-extension).

##
__Q:__ How can I save the trained model and load it again later?

__A:__ Two options:
1. Use the GUI's "Snapshot" section.
2. Use the Python bindings `load_snapshot` / `save_snapshot` (see `scripts/run.py` for example usage).

##
__Q:__ Can this codebase use multiple GPUs at the same time?

__A:__ No. To select a specific GPU to run on, use the [CUDA_VISIBLE_DEVICES](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/39649102/how-do-i-select-which-gpu-to-run-a-job-on) environment variable. To optimize the _compilation_ for that specific GPU use the [TCNN_CUDA_ARCHITECTURES](https://github.com/NVlabs/instant-ngp#compilation-windows--linux) environment variable.

##
__Q:__ What is the coordinate system convention?

__A:__ See [this helpful diagram](https://github.com/NVlabs/instant-ngp/discussions/153?converting=1#discussioncomment-2187652) by user @jc211.

##
__Q:__ The NeRF reconstruction of my custom dataset looks bad; what can I do?

__A:__ There could be multiple issues:
- COLMAP might have been unable to reconstruct camera poses.
- There might have been movement or blur during capture. Don't treat capture as an artistic task; treat it as photogrammetry. You want _\*as little blur as possible\*_ in your dataset (motion, defocus, or otherwise) and all objects must be _\*static\*_ during the entire capture. Bonus points if you are using a wide-angle lens (iPhone wide angle works well), because it covers more space than narrow lenses.
- The dataset parameters (in particular `aabb_scale`) might have been tuned suboptimally. We recommend starting with `aabb_scale=16` and then decreasing it to `8`, `4`, `2`, and `1` until you get optimal quality.
- Carefully read [our NeRF training & dataset tips](https://github.com/NVlabs/instant-ngp/blob/master/docs/nerf_dataset_tips.md).

##
__Q:__ Why are background colors randomized during NeRF training?

__A:__ Transparency in the training data indicates a desire for transparency in the learned model. Using solid background colors, the model can minimize its loss by simply predicting the background colors, rather than transparency (zero density). By randomizing the background colors, the model is _forced_ to learn zero density to let the randomized colors "shine through".


##
__Q:__ How to mask away NeRF training pixels (e.g. for dynamic object removal)?

__A:__ For any training image `xyz.*` with dynamic objects, you can provide a `dynamic_mask_xyz.png` in the same folder. This file must be in PNG format, where _non-zero_ pixel values indicate masked-away regions.

## Troubleshooting compile errors

Before investigating further, make sure all submodules are up-to-date and try compiling again.
```sh
instant-ngp$ git submodule sync --recursive
instant-ngp$ git submodule update --init --recursive
```
If __instant-ngp__ still fails to compile, update CUDA as well as your compiler to the latest versions you can install on your system. It is crucial that you update _both_, as newer CUDA versions are not always compatible with earlier compilers and vice versa.
If your problem persists, consult the following table of known issues.

| Problem | Resolution |
|---------|------------|
| __CMake error:__ No CUDA toolset found / CUDA_ARCHITECTURES is empty for target "cmTC_0c70f" | __Windows:__ the Visual Studio CUDA integration was not installed correctly. Follow [these instructions](https://github.com/mitsuba-renderer/mitsuba2/issues/103#issuecomment-618378963) to fix the problem without re-installing CUDA. ([#18](https://github.com/NVlabs/instant-ngp/issues/18)) |
| | __Linux:__ Environment variables for your CUDA installation are probably incorrectly set. You may work around the issue using ```cmake . -B build -DCMAKE_CUDA_COMPILER=/usr/local/cuda-<your cuda version>/bin/nvcc``` ([#28](https://github.com/NVlabs/instant-ngp/issues/28)) |
| __CMake error:__ No known features for CXX compiler "MSVC" | Reinstall Visual Studio & make sure you run CMake from a developer shell. ([#21](https://github.com/NVlabs/instant-ngp/issues/21)) |
| __Compile error:__ undefined references to "cudaGraphExecUpdate" / identifier "cublasSetWorkspace" is undefined | Update your CUDA installation (which is likely 11.0) to 11.3 or higher. ([#34](https://github.com/NVlabs/instant-ngp/issues/34) [#41](https://github.com/NVlabs/instant-ngp/issues/41) [#42](https://github.com/NVlabs/instant-ngp/issues/42)) |
| __Compile error:__ too few arguments in function call | Update submodules with the above two `git` commands. ([#37](https://github.com/NVlabs/instant-ngp/issues/37) [#52](https://github.com/NVlabs/instant-ngp/issues/52)) |
| __Python error:__ No module named 'pyngp' | It is likely that CMake did not detect your Python installation and therefore did not build `pyngp`. Check CMake logs to verify this. If `pyngp` was built in a different folder than `instant-ngp/build`, Python will be unable to detect it and you have to supply the full path to the import statement. ([#43](https://github.com/NVlabs/instant-ngp/issues/43)) |

If you cannot find your problem in the table, please feel free to [open an issue](https://github.com/NVlabs/instant-ngp/issues/new) and ask for help.

## Thanks

Many thanks to [Jonathan Tremblay](https://research.nvidia.com/person/jonathan-tremblay) and [Andrew Tao](https://developer.nvidia.com/blog/author/atao/) for testing early versions of this codebase and to Arman Toorians and Saurabh Jain for the factory robot dataset.
We also thank [Andrew Webb](https://github.com/grey-area) for noticing that one of the prime numbers in the spatial hash was not actually prime; this has been fixed since.

This project makes use of a number of awesome open source libraries, including:
* [tiny-cuda-nn](https://github.com/NVlabs/tiny-cuda-nn) for fast CUDA networks and input encodings
* [tinyexr](https://github.com/syoyo/tinyexr) for EXR format support
* [tinyobjloader](https://github.com/tinyobjloader/tinyobjloader) for OBJ format support
* [stb_image](https://github.com/nothings/stb) for PNG and JPEG support
* [Dear ImGui](https://github.com/ocornut/imgui) an excellent immediate mode GUI library
* [Eigen](https://eigen.tuxfamily.org/index.php?title=Main_Page) a C++ template library for linear algebra
* [pybind11](https://github.com/pybind/pybind11) for seamless C++ / Python interop
* and others! See the `dependencies` folder.

Many thanks to the authors of these brilliant projects!

## License and Citation

```bibtex
@article{mueller2022instant,
    title = {Instant Neural Graphics Primitives with a Multiresolution Hash Encoding},
    author = {Thomas M\"uller and Alex Evans and Christoph Schied and Alexander Keller},
    journal = {arXiv:2201.05989},
    year = {2022},
    month = jan
}
```

Copyright © 2022, NVIDIA Corporation. All rights reserved.

This work is made available under the Nvidia Source Code License-NC. Click [here](LICENSE.txt) to view a copy of this license.
